Let's actually go back to this view
where you can run all the tests,
you can run an individual tests
kind of suite in this case so
each one of these files you can run,
as you kinda go through.
So let's go ahead and let's just pick
this very first one right here and
kinda get a sense of the experience.
So it's gonna open up Chrome and
while I am running dark mode on my
computer right now simply for lighting and
stuff along those lines, this is actually
a slightly different version of Chrome.
If you fire this up, you might even
see two, if you are on Mac OS,
you might see two Chrome
icons in the dock.
And if you command tab, you will see
two of them on the window, cuz there is
your regular Chrome and then you can
kind of see at that banner at the top.
Chrome is being controlled
by automated test software.
This is a Chrome is getting
spun up in testing mode.
What are the core differences here?
One is, none of your extensions
are there that can kind of add,
different chaos into your testing.
You're not logged in, it's like a fresh
version of the Chrome browser for
the sole purpose of being driven
by cypress or a similar tool.
We have basically our application
in this iframe to the right
as well as our test suite and
kind of the status of all those tests.
Now, if one breaks clearly,
there's a little bit more data in here.
But a few things to
kind of point out here.
So we can go ahead and kind of see each
step, and you'll notice as well that
I can kind of see each part of
the test as I hover through it.
You can open up your developer tools.
And so
if something was logged to the console,
it's not like some black box that
you can't see into, it is a browser.
This is your application running in
the browser that you are probably
testing it in, as you were working on it.
So you can kind of pull up all of the
browsers, just some extra accoutrements
around it to kind of give you a sense
of what's going on with your test.
You'll also notice that as
you run the test suite,
it runs through all the tests,
and then it stops.
It doesn't say everything was good and
closes the browser,
it just stops either at
the last successful test, or
if something failed at that failure,
right?
And this is so that if you're working on a
test you kind of run up to the steps that
you have, right?
Figure some stuff out, if you need
to like open up the console, and
like inspect the elements on the page or
something along those lines.
And we'll talk about another way to do
that in a second, that you can do all that
things and kind of like build
up your tests as they go along.
The other interesting part is, for
the most part, we are going to be writing
tests usually for our own applications
that we're working on, right?
But you'll see that despite the fact that
this is in that create react app lipo that
I made, this is actually going to a page
on Cypress's website that has a to do list
and it's kicking the tires
on that application, right?
And so, when I say that is
anything that runs in the browser,
you can test, this is a really great
example of it, like this isn't our code.
This isn't the code base,
this is simply their site that we
kind of have in place as well.
So you can kind of go through the test.
The other really interesting one
that we're gonna use a lot today is
the selector playground, which we'll
go ahead and kind of give you what
is likely the best possible selector
to use as you write your tests.
So, this is again that advantage of
basically the test suite stops whenever it
was finished, and hands back control
trolled to you because you can go ahead
and kind of poke around a little more.
Question?
>> Can you customise
the Cypress open app or
add features or is it a closed extension?
>> You can, right?
So the question was, can you customize any
things kind of working with Cypress or
is it just a kind of closed
ecosystem you get what you get and
you don't complain about it?
If we go back into those four folders and
we'll kind of just gloss over a little bit
say, we have this plugins directory, and
in here there is on and config, right?
So right now it exports a no app function
that is basically gets two things,
on, config.
Config is your actual Cypress
configuration that you or
any plugin that you install
can modify at runtime.
So for instance, you might want to be like
if we know that we are in a development
environment I want to point it
against this set of API's, or
something along those lines.
Any configuration that you might need
to do for different environments,
you want to do it programmatically,
you can do in here and modify
the configuration using the full power
of the JavaScript programming language.
And as well as on which we will play with
a little bit today allows you to either
a call functions that run in node.
So if you need to seed the database,
you can kind of like create a set of tasks
they're called, to see the database,
clear out the database, reset any of
the infrastructure you need to reset,
also that on has a whole bunch of events,
right?
Before you run any of the tests, before
you run a given test suite after, right?
So you can go ahead and
basically you have a lot of hooks
into the way that Cypress operates.
Other things you can do in this file,
is you can install, like we said before,
this version has no, none of your
Chrome extension's installed, right?
But you could, if you were testing
a Chrome extension for instance,
you probably want it in loaded into
Chrome to see if it's working the way
you expect it to,
here's where you can kind of
customize that browser itself by loading
extensions so on and so forth, right?
We'll talk about some of
the plugins that exist,
we won't get all the way into
like writing a bespoke plugin,
we will talk about some of those
testing like ceremonies, right?
Like seeding a database,
clearing it out, resetting things,
if you need to spin up a user, right?
Those things get a little bit tricky,
we'll talk about some of the trade offs,
but this is where we will be
doing that at some point as well.
As well as in support, you have just other
functions that you might want to like
bring in and add to your
ability to test things as well.
The other things you can do in this window
as well is you can change the viewport.
You can do that programmatically as well,
as you can see like in your Cypress JSON
or actually like for a given set of tests,
you can change it to an iPhone size or
what have you, and
test it in different views to see.
Make sure like things that should be
hidden, if you really love your hamburger
icons, and you want to make sure that
they're there in the mobile view,
you can set the viewport
like that as well.
You can do that for
the entire test suite in cypress.json,
which we'll talk about in a second.
Or like I said before, you can modify that
configuration in a given test as well.
So we have that there,
the other interesting part here is,
you can kind of see a version
of the kind of location bar.
The one caveat is that, to get a browser
that is hooked into some code,
driving it to work, there is a certain
amount of magic that needs to happen.
For most cases you can visit
any site that you want.
It is visiting HTTPS example .cypress.io,
you can see that Chrome's
actual location bar is not particularly
pleased about this, but it does work in
Cypress actually controlling and driving
this page that's not on its origin.
The caveat is, it does all of this
magic at the first domain that you hit.
So if you want to jump into driving
your Gmail and then jump over,
in a given test,
you can't necessarily do that, right?
But now we're kinda trying to use it for
automating the browser,
we're using a testing
tool that could do it for
reason it wasn't necessarily
intended to do it, right?
And so you're kind of,
that's not particularly surprising.
The other interesting part is we saw
those selectors before that cy.get.
If we use a selector playground,
it will, again it tries to get the best
possible selector, and it will tell you
how many elements in the page match it.
And, it'll allow you to copy that
selector right to the clipboard.
So this is an easy way as you're again,
as the pauses and
you're trying to figure out like how to
go and drive through your application,
that copy to clipboard is a really helpful
way to help you use your test runner,
to help design your tests, right?
So that's again,
incredibly helpful as well.
And as you can see, you are more than
welcome to pull up just the regular Chrome
tools and
do whatever you need to do, right?
You might want to look at the network
tab in the same way you would debug your
real application,
you can debug your tests in the same way.
Cool, so we've got that in place,
you can go back to your tests, right?
It's running in Chrome,
if I need to stop it,
I can stop that kind of
automated version of Chrome.
I can run all the tests, I can run a given
test, I can open that test in the IDE.
We'll get into runs at the end of
the workshop, settings is effectively,
all the things that can change
the settings in your Cypress situation,
this is a way to see how
they all come together.
One of the other files outside of
the Cypress folder that was created for
us is a cypress.json,
in this case it is an empty
object cuz it has not been configured
in any way, shape or form.
This is a place where you can
kind of put some of those things.
The most common one that you might add
in is what your base URL is, right?
So you do not have to type in
a full domain name all the time.
So you can for instance, And type in
like local host 3000 and so on and so
forth, right?
Anything along those lines.
I will show you that in
the other application as well.
And you can kind of go ahead and
drive stuff around.
Like I said, if you're setting it for
the first time and
you no longer want any of this, you can
say no thanks, delete the example files.
The other interesting part about this is
it will only delete ones that you haven't
modified, right?
So if you've played around with some,
you want to keep those, you actually can,
I will leave it as an exercise to the
reader to kind of go through some of these
and just kind of familiarize yourself
with some of the common patterns, right?
So, there's an example
around local storage.
We will cover an example around,
look making sure that the path in
the location bar is what it should be for
where you are, especially if we're
doing like client side routing or
something along those lines,
network requests so on and so forth.
So, we'll occasionally pop in there and
just look at a few examples as they
come up, there's questions around them,
so I'm gonna leave these files here.
But you can see definitely that probably
testing examples that cyprus.io is not
probably what you installed
Cypress to do in your application.
So we'll leave them here for
our purposes, but
you would probably delete them at this
point, you'll also see the version.
Version 9.1 is the current version
at the recording of this workshop.
It will tell you if there's
a new version out and
you should consider upgrading, question?
>> Is it possible to run
tests on real mobile devices,
something like browser stack or plugin?
>> I think via some of the plugins, but
like the driver itself is taking
a version of Chrome in this case, right?
But yeah, I think when we look at
some of the plugins you can like
hook it up to those as well.